.. _manual-i18n:

Translation support
===================

Many sites need to support content and templates in multiple
languages. Luckily, Zotonic is completely multilingual, out of the
box. :ref:`mod_translation` does all the work for you.

Zotonic will try to serve the page in the language of the user (based
on the browser's `HTTP Accept header
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_negotiation>`_) or the selected
language from the URL. If this fails, Zotonic falls back to the
default language as configured on the Translation admin page.

In Zotonic, two kinds of information are being translated.

- Static translations: The fixed texts in your templates, like button
  labels, confirmation texts, etc.

- Translated content, as edited in the admin. The text fields of each
  :term:`Resource` can be translated in multiple languages.


Enabling multiple languages
---------------------------

Before you can use multiple languages, you first need to enable
:ref:`mod_translation`.

Next, you need to tell Zotonic which languages you are going to use.
You can do this in the /admin, following the `Translation` menu item
in the `Structure` submenu.

On this page you can add and remove languages, enabled/disable
languages and more. Note that a language is always identified by its
two letter `ISO639-1 language code
<http://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lijst_van_ISO_639-1-codes>`_.


Static translations
-------------------

The fixed texts in a Zotonic website are translated using the `GNU
gettext <http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/>` ``.po`` file format and
its related tools.

In Zotonic, static translations are organised in each Zotonic
module. It is the module's responsibility to provide translations for
all the texts that it uses in its templates. All files related to
static translations live inside the ``translations/`` subdirectory of
a module (remember: a Zotonic site is just a module!). 

In the ``translations/`` directory of the modules you can find the ``.po``
files containing the translations. They are marked with the their two
letter language code.  (Optionally you can name your file like:
nl.foobar.po as Zotonic will only look at the part till the first '.'
for the language code)::

  translations/
  ├── nl.po
  ├── template
  │   └── mod_foo.pot
  └── tr.po

Here you see that this module, ``mod_foo``, has been translated into
Dutch (`nl`) and Turkish (`tr`).

The translations/ directory contains a subdirectory which contains
``mod_foo.pot``, which is the translation `template`, on which new
translations will be based.

The basis for these files (the translation `template`), is the ``.pot``
file which is located in the ``template/`` subdirectory of the translations
directory. This ``.pot`` file is regenerated when you click on the `generate
.pot files` button on the Translation page in the admin.

After clicking generate .pot files Zotonic will parse all your
templates and Erlang modules for translatable strings. These strings are
then added to the .pot file.

Creating a new translation for a module
.......................................

First, add a language in the admin with the 2-letter code for that language.
    
Say, we're adding Polish, ``pl``. Now copy the ``.pot`` template file
to the 2-letter code ``.po`` file::

  $ cd modules/mod_foo
  $ cp translations/template/mod_foo.pot translations/pl.po

Now, open ``pl.po`` in your favorite editor and start translating the strings.
A good po file editor can be found at: http://www.poedit.net/

Updating translation strings
............................

When templates change, often the translatable strings change: more
strings are added, strings are changed, or removed. When this happens,
the translation files need to be kept in sync.

The `Translation status` page in the admin gives an overview, per
module / language combination, of the amount of strings that are
translated for each language.

When pressing the `Generate .pot files` button in the translation
admin, the ``.pot`` files are updated, but the existing ``.po`` files
are not.

GNU gettext comes with a tool, ``msgmerge``, which looks at the
changed strings in a ``.pot`` file and changes the translated strings
in a language's ``.po`` file accordingly::

  $ cd modules/mod_foo/translations
  $ msgmerge -U nl.po templates/mod_foo.pot

This will merge the new strings into the existing ``nl.po``
file. After doing this, you'll need to edit the ``nl.po`` file again
to check if there are new strings which need translation, edit
existing strings, etc.



Translated content
------------------
  
When you have enabled languages on the Translation page of the admin
you will see a Translations item on the right of the edit page.

Each language has a checkbox next to it: When you click a checkbox,
the language will become visible as a tab on your content items.

Resources in Zotonic are translated on a per-page basis. This allows
you to start translating your site by translating the most important
pages first.


