Released on 2011-12-11 19:51 by arjan.

Alain O’Dea (1):

*   Ignore compile output and runtime generated files

Arjan Scherpenisse (mod\_mailinglist):

*   Added new bounce handling dialog.
*   Attach documents to the mailing for each ‘hasdocument’ edge instead of ‘document’.
*   Added administration of worker processes to email server.
*   Updated translations, removed references to mod\_emailer.
*   Fixed using the configured address in mailinglist rsc as the “from” address.
*   Re-added the option of test-sending a mailinglist page to a single address.
*   Removed already\_sent check from mod\_mailinglist, which is not needed since the new interface.
*   Fix include reference to mailing footer template.

Arjan Scherpenisse (mod\_survey):

*   mod\_survey: made questions configurably required or not.
*   Added dutch translation for mod\_survey; small template tweaks. Fixes #205
*   mod\_survey: quick hack to put email validation on a field if you name it ‘email’.

Arjan Scherpenisse (misc):

*   Added support for varying overview lists in the admin on category.
*   mod\_facebook: make ‘scope’ parameter configurable.
*   On win32, mime type returned as application/octet for all files.
*   Added spanish translation and install the spanish language by default and enable it.
*   Added a file with the translators per language.
*   Scan all erlang files in the modules for translatable strings.
*   Added missing file
*   Added 2 new translation template files.
*   Add check in zotonic-addsite to see if the given site name is valid.
*   tiny\_mce: Fixed the disappearing of inline images. Fixes issue #203.
*   Tooltip Y position is now dependent on its height. Fixes issue #207
*   Disregard stderr output from identify command. Fixes issue #206
*   Make windows users happy when redirecting stderr.
*   Added dutch month/day names to mod\_l10n.
*   z\_datamodel: do not try to resolve ‘undefined’ in valid\_for check
*   Generalized group\_title\_firstchar filter into group\_firstchar.
*   Added date\_start\_year= and date\_end\_year= search filters to filter on year of date start/end.
*   Fix infinite recursion in sub\_month/3 filter.
*   mod\_import\_csv: Added import button to admin status page.
*   m\_rsc\_update emptied the pivot\_date\_\* fields when `date_` fields where not part of the update.
*   Added application/x-font-woff for webfonts.
*   Allow modules to override admin TinyMCE options which were originally set in admin-common.js
*   Addressed the issues in the backup module. Fixes #220
*   mod\_backup: make sure we have an archive dir before archiving.
*   Added option email\_bounce\_override to override bounce email address.
*   Allow id to be either number or unique name for resource\_admin\_edit.
*   Export z\_session\_manager:get\_session\_id/1.
*   z\_html: do not escape/strip HTML when a property name ends in \_html.
*   z\_html:escape\_props/1 - Make selecting escape function more safe.
*   Fixed picture rotation detection by tweaking the parser of the output of “exif -m -t Rotation”.
*   Fixed z\_utils:tempfile() to respect OS environment variables.
*   z\_convert:to\_json/1 now also accepts floating point numbers.
*   Fix SQL error in z\_installer.
*   Add distinctive icon for internal link in TinyMCE. Fixes #189
*   Removed m\_identity:\{get,set\}\_props which were unused and not working.
*   Show language selector on admin media page. Fixes #253
*   mod\_twitter: remove invalid \{verbose, trace\} option.
*   lower/upper filters now try to convert their argument to a list if they’re not.