Released on 2012-08-11 16:36 by arjan.

Ahmed Al-Saadi (1):

*   Removed websocket response header to conform to the latest proposed websocket protocol standard (see <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455#section-4.2.2>, December 2011)

Arjan Scherpenisse (20):

*   Fixed the “make docs” command in the Makefile
*   Fix 2 typos.
*   mod\_mailinglist - depend on mod\_logging.
*   mod\_mailinglist - address recipients by name in welcome/confirm/goodbye messages.
*   mod\_mailinglist: new filter to add recipient details to links in mails.
*   mod\_backup: Prefix backup files with the site’s name.
*   Dynamically calculate the ebin dirs when compiling .erl, to ensure deps/ ebin dir existence.
*   Fix wording of SEO webmaster tools configuration. Fixes #310.
*   Merge remote-tracking branch ‘origin/release-0.8.x’ into release-0.8.x
*   Added optional argument to show\_media filter which specifies the used template for media items.
*   z\_email\_server: Force quoted-printable encoding on HTML and Text parts in emails.
*   Show e-mail addresses that have been entered in the survey in an easy copy-pastable dialog.
*   mod\_survey: Added easily-printable output.
*   mod\_survey: Sort the printable list on name\_surname by default. Sort argument from the query string is also supported.
*   mod\_survey: Use lowercase when sorting printable list
*   Backport fixes to Twitter filter to 0.8.
*   Fix blog skel indentation. Fixes #329

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (4):

*   The session id was not stored when a new session was created. Hopefully this fixes #327.
*   Fix for mochiweb:to\_html bug with singleton tags. Fixes issue #328
*   Make language dependent URL rewriting configurable. Fixes #315
*   Fix for logoff option. Fixes #382

Marc Worrell (8):

*   Fixed a problem when editing a newly added menu. This was already fixed in the new-admin-design branch.
*   Fixed typo in attr name (‘check’ instead of ‘checked’)
*   Fix cache key of page. Issue #313
*   Added travis-ci config from master.
*   mod\_survey: Added some css to display survey questions.
*   mod\_survey: Better likert display
*   mod\_survey: Better matching display
*   mod\_survey: Better longanswer display