Released on 2014-10-01 20:16 by arjan.

Arjan Scherpenisse (13):

*   mod\_menu: Add menuexport JSON service
*   mod\_survey: Return the (possibly generated) submission id, after insert
*   mod\_admin: Put the unicode quotes of the link message in binaries
*   core: Flush z\_datamodel after managing new categories
*   mod\_twitter: Fix twitter OAuth logon
*   mod\_base: Export controller\_logon:set\_rememberme\_cookie/2
*   doc: clarify using categories defined by other modules in manage\_schema
*   core: Always normalize rsc blocks
*   mod\_survey: Align ACL check of printable results page
*   core: Fix name-to-id cache invalidation
*   mod\_admin: Add option to create outgoing edges in new page dialog.
*   mod\_survey: Fix dispatch rule ACL access
*   mod\_oauth: No ACL check on authorize URL; just check if logged in

Arthur Clemens (19):

*   minor translation and typo fixes
*   docs: small improvements to link and unlink action
*   doc: mention named wire actions in wire doc
*   Remove redundant is\_protected check on resource
*   doc: update menu documentation to reflect actual output of the module
*   mod\_menu: add param class to menu
*   doc: add reference to to\_integer
*   core: increase maximum image size for previews
*   doc: describe attributes removebg and upscale
*   doc: document md5 filter
*   doc: document filter default
*   doc: fix module install command
*   translation: typo
*   Fix various NL translation inconsistencies
*   Fix NL translation
*   Only use pre block if error\_dump is available
*   Add clause for 404
*   mod\_acl\_simple\_roles: add module names to titles
*   mod\_oauth: change required access to mod\_oauth

David de Boer (3):

*   Fix edges not being added in manage\_schema
*   Allow to set is\_protected from manage\_schema
*   mod\_admin: Fix typo

Marc Worrell (12):

*   mod\_video\_embed: correctly fetch preview images for youtube videos with a ‘#’ in the url.
*   mod\_video: fixes for handling binaries returned from the z\_string and other function (used to be lists)
*   Merge branch ‘release-0.10.x’ of github.com:zotonic/zotonic into release-0.10.x
*   core: minor fix in mime-lookup for files not recognized by ‘identify’
*   core: allow binary results from validations. For now map them to lists, later with the binary webmachine replace this with binary only.
*   core: fix problem where rsc\_gone insertion would crash if there is already a ‘gone’ entry for the rsc. This is in the category ‘should not happen’, but also happened in production.
*   core: add infinite timeout to dispatcher calls, prevent crashes on busy or swapping machines.
*   core: add DB\_PROPS macro to ease transition from 0.10 to 0.11
*   Merge pull request #799 from driebit/is-protected-schema
*   mod\_survey: better survey results display.
*   core: fixes for tinymce initialization and language tab sync in the admin
*   mod\_admin\_identity: let’s stop sending the password in clear text.