Released on 2014-06-17 20:27 by arjan.



Release highlights
------------------



### New core features

The properties of the resource model (m\_rsc) can now be easily be inspected with the ‘print tag’ and iterated over.



New core features
-----------------

The properties of the resource model (m\_rsc) can now be easily be inspected with the ‘print tag’ and iterated over.



### Updated modules

mod\_development

Added dispatch debugging and explanation. Added checkbox to disable the api-service `/api/development/recompile`

mod\_admin\_modules

Add “configure” button in the module manager for modules which contain a template called `_admin_configure_module.tpl`.



### New notification

Added the notification `request_context`. This is a foldl with the Context and is called after the request’s query arguments are parsed using `z_context:ensure_qs/1`. It can be used to perform transformations or actions based on the query arguments.



Commits overview
----------------

Arjan Scherpenisse (11):

*   build: Always use a downloaded rebar
*   core: Add pivot columns for location lat / lng.
*   core: Add zotonic\_dispatch\_path to z\_context blacklist
*   core: Fix comet/WS when site streamhost is undefined and redirect = false
*   core: Let Travis build 0.10.x
*   core: recode iso639 module to UTF-8
*   doc: Clarify why Zotonic cannot directly use port 80
*   mod\_admin: Add option ‘show\_date’ to ‘latest resources’ admin dashboard widget
*   mod\_admin: Correct vertical centering of connection dialog
*   mod\_admin\_modules: Add “configure” button on module manager
*   mod\_base: Vertically center the z\_dialog when it is opened

Arthur Clemens (19):

*   doc: Add OS support, change name to Requirements
*   doc: Improve docs sidebar layout a bit
*   doc: Rename ‘tutorials’ to ‘installation’
*   doc: Tuning docs on services and mod\_oauth
*   doc: add example to filter on depiction
*   doc: add link to manual dispatch
*   doc: document restart command
*   doc: elaborate conditional display of widget
*   doc: fix ‘button title’ to ‘button text’
*   doc: show\_media tag TLC
*   doc: tweak highlight and see also colors
*   doc: update Zotonic shell
*   make new page button pass current category
*   mod\_admin: disable reindex button while indexing
*   mod\_admin: improve feedback
*   mod\_admin: live update of pivot queue count
*   mod\_editor\_tinymce: introduce z\_editor

Marc Worrell (24):

*   core: added ‘request\_context’ notification. Triggered after a request’s query arguments are parsed.
*   core: always set the user explicitly in the session. Don’t copy the user from the current context.
*   core: bump version to 0.10.0p1
*   core: fix problem where z\_db:insert can hang when running out of db connections.
*   core: let the template \{% print m.rsc\[1\] %\} print all rescource properties. Same for \{% for k,v in m.rsc\[1\] %\}.%
*   core: more binary/list changes (due to z\_string changes)
*   core: set default schema for sites without dbschema config.
*   core: set the option for Erlang 17.0 and later. Issue #764
*   core: set the zotonic\_dispatch\_path to the path before an internal resource redirec.
*   docs: add documentation for zotonic\_dispatch\_path\_rewrite var
*   docs: add more mod\_development documentation.
*   docs: add note about 0.10.0p1
*   docs: added preliminary 0.10.1 release notes.
*   mod\_admin\_frontend: fix for introduction of z\_editor. Also sync the language tabs.
*   mod\_development: add access control to the dispatch rule debugger.
*   mod\_development: add checkbox to enable or disable the development/recompile api.
*   mod\_development: add human-readable form for rewrite\_nomatch. Always show the final dispatch.
*   mod\_development: added request dispatching debug. This shows the steps of the dispatcher in matching a dispatch rule, including all bindings, rewrites etc.
*   mod\_development: added template lookup tool to check the template selection. Optionally add a resource castegory. Shows the selected template per user-agent class.
*   mod\_development: fix build of edoc.
*   mod\_development: fix problem where the dispatch-debugging interfered with ssl connection redirects.
*   mod\_development: show final dispatch after #dispatch\_rewrite.
*   mod\_oembed: fix for z\_string:to\_name/1 now returning a binary.
*   mod\_survey: fix display of likert. Values were reversed from real values.

Mawuli Adzaku (1):

*   mod\_base: Add ‘md5’ filter to translate a string to an md5 hex value