Released on 2014-12-22 10:30 by mworrell.

Major changes are:

*   Fix of the twerl git url in rebar.config.lock
*   New z\_stdlib, fixing issues with url metadata extraction
*   Sanitization of oembed content
*   Addition of Font Awesome 4
*   Extended Zotonic logo font



The following commits were done
-------------------------------

Arthur Clemens (20):

*   admin: general layout fixes
*   admin: use zotonic icons
*   doc: update logo and link style
*   fix gitignore
*   mod\_admin: remove unused files
*   mod\_admin: update with mod\_base changes
*   mod\_artwork: add font awesome 4
*   mod\_artwork: add zotonic logos
*   mod\_artwork: rename logo folder to “zotonic”
*   mod\_base: allow other libs to import z.icons.less
*   mod\_base: bring back (predictable) circle icons
*   mod\_base: extend logo font to include general icons for Zotonic modules
*   mod\_base: make extra tag more compatible
*   mod\_base: replace some icons with FA versions, add button styles
*   mod\_base: simplify icon creation; add extending FA icons
*   mod\_base: update favicon
*   Remove unused files
*   zotonic\_status: add less files
*   zotonic\_status: make responsive, update appearance
*   zotonic\_status: notification tweaks

Marc Worrell (8):

*   core: add instagram js and urls to whitelist.
*   core: lock new z\_stdlib library. Fix twerl git url. Fixes #895
*   mod\_admin: always show media content, independent if size was defined.
*   mod\_oembed/mod\_twitter: prefer our own ‘website’ extraction above oembed links. Pass the tweet url in the import\_resource notification
*   mod\_oembed: add missing fallback \_oembed\_embeddable.tpl
*   mod\_oembed: sanitize received oembed code html and texts.
*   mod\_survey: fix problem where displaying the results did not work due to move sanitization functions.
*   mod\_twitter: fix import of tweets with special-html chars, was double escaped in title.