Welcome Zotonic 0.13.6, released on December 14, 2015.

This is a maintenance release of Zotonic 0.13

Main changes are:

*   Fix the deps version lock by adding USE\_REBAR\_LOCKED
*   New bin/zotonic command to start without a shell: *start-nodaemon*
*   Overview of edges in the mod\_admin
*   New module mod\_admin\_merge to merge resources
*   Retained messages for ~pagesession topics
*   Performance fixes for api calls
*   Significant better revision history in mod\_backup
*   Add `no_touch` option to `m_rsc:update/4`
*   Many smaller fixes

The following 0.13.7 release will incorporate some performance and stability enhancements from the master (1.0-dev) branch.



Commits since 0.13.5
--------------------

There were 96 commits since release 0.13.5.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

Arjan Scherpenisse (1):

*   core: Revert edown revision bump due to compilation breakage

Arthur Clemens (24):

*   Tweak input border border to match buttons
*   doc: typo
*   mod\_admin\_predicate: fine-tune display of items
*   mod\_signup: update translation strings, update Dutch
*   mod\_authentication: update translation strings; update Dutch
*   doc: move number formatting to strings
*   doc: update examples so that they will work
*   mod\_admin: style disabled tabs
*   doc: fix make script
*   doc: fix make script
*   mod\_admin: add category name to category dialog on edit page
*   mod\_admin: add category preselection to connect-find dialog
*   filewatcher: handle spaces filepath in less command
*   filewatcher: handle spaces filepath in less command
*   mod\_admin: reverse created/modified
*   Remove borders from connections list
*   mod\_admin: align category param between find and new tabs
*   mod\_translation: handle concatenated lists
*   mod\_admin: generate translation strings, update NL
*   mod\_acl\_simple\_roles: typo
*   mod\_admin: add dependency mod\_mqtt
*   doc: improve docs on CORS
*   mod\_editor\_tinymce: remove codemirror init code
*   mod\_admin\_merge: grammar and text tweaks

David de Boer (2):

*   Add modules model docs
*   Fix query export

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (6):

*   mod\_mqtt: Added a way to pass js arguments for mqtt wires.
*   mod\_base: Use beacon api to get good page close feedback for chrome/firefox and recent android users
*   mod\_mqtt: Added retained messages for local (~pagesession) topics
*   mod\_component: Updated mithril to version 0.0.2
*   mod\_mqtt: Just return the topic if it is not a site topic
*   core: Make sure looking up translations always succeed. Fixes #1103

Marc Worrell (57):

*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: fix acl check for module use rights. Fixes #1071
*   Merge pull request #1064 from driebit/modules-model-doc
*   Add USE\_REBAR\_LOCKED file to use the locked config
*   Fix erlware\_commons version, as the erlware\_commons master requires rebar3
*   Copy Travis config from master
*   Lock version of new mochiweb and qdate
*   mod\_admin\_predicate: add overview pages of edges, optionally filter by predicate. Issue #1075
*   core: tuning the full text search. Add option to exclude certain predicates from adding the object’s title to the pivot text. Set different full text ranking weights and behaviour
*   mod\_admin\_predicate: rename ‘connection’ to ‘page connection’
*   mod\_admin: add the ‘all connections’ button to the dashboard
*   mod\_search: fix for rank\_behaviour arg in simple fullext query.
*   mod\_base: add convenience arg to lazy scomp. If ‘template’ argument is defined then all arguments are wrapped in an update action.
*   core: add controller\_http\_error for handling HTTP errors in other controllers.
*   Locked new webzmachine (needed for the error controller)
*   mod\_survey: add option to send answers to the respondent.
*   mod\_survey: change some texts to make options clearer.
*   filewatcher: use os:find\_exectutable/1 instead of os:cmd(“which ..”) to find command line executables. Fixes #1078
*   core: check for the presence of ‘identify’, ‘convert’ and ‘exif’ before execution. This gives better error messages. Issue #1078
*   core: fix ‘undefined’ warning if rsc is inserted with content\_group\_id set to ‘undefined’.
*   mod\_admin\_identity: let all people with use.mod\_admin\_identity manage usernames and passwords. Fixes #1077
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: refine ‘block’ semantics, now blocks fo the mentioned user group.
*   Undo changes by commit c10055bdd581877d9df113407d8083877a1bc6b6
*   erlydtl: change generated (image tag) code to never echo errors inline in the template. Instead call lager or error\_logger.
*   core: fix tag/viewer generation (typo)
*   core: fix a problem in z\_email\_server with mailing attachments by rsc id.
*   mod\_base\_site: add z.clickable.js
*   mod\_base\_site: add email to the share page dialog.
*   mod\_admin: change ‘replace media item’ text to ‘add media item’ if no medium is present. Thanks to @fredpook.
*   mod\_admin: use live templates for the connection lists.
*   core: fix order of subcategories returned by is\_a
*   core: cleanup text to pivot and search. Remove ‘-‘, ‘/’, and tags. Unescape the remaining text.
*   smtp: mark emails from the mailer-daemon as automatic emails.
*   Merge changes by @CyBeRoni issue #1082
*   mod\_search: allow to check on ‘is null’ and ‘is not null’ using ‘=’/’<>’ and ‘undefined’
*   New z\_stdlib.
*   Lock parse\_trans to newer version.
*   Move to uwiger/jobs instead of esl/jobs
*   New z\_stdlib
*   mod\_admin: set ‘inputmode’ attributes. Remove ‘type=url’ to prevent Chrome from checking the input. Issue #1093
*   mod\_admin: allow changing edges on the ‘linkable’ permission instead of ‘editable’. Fixes #1098
*   mod\_base: fix some performance regressions in controller\_api and z\_service. Add simple Techempower json benchmark.
*   New webzmachine - fixes logging of 500 errors.
*   mod\_backup: redo user interface of revision history
*   Merge pull request #1088 from driebit/fix-export-query
*   core: add api to return edge properties. Add ‘no\_touch’ option to m\_rsc\_update, and option to set creator\_id and craeted on edge. Fixes #1087
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: add a ‘published’ check to SQL searches for non-admin users. Small cleanup in z\_search. Fixes #1081
*   core: remove sql errors when enabling modules in site (re)start.
*   core: log errors returned from collecting the custom pivots.
*   core: add z\_pivot\_rsc:pivot\_delay/1, makes it possible to delay pivoting when performing many resource updates.
*   core: trim pivot fields like name and city.
*   core: new functionality to merge two resources. Adds module mod\_admin\_merge and #rsc\_merge\{\} notification.
*   docs: new placeholders for mod\_admin\_merge and some new controllers.
*   core: fix rsc\_gone lookup for new location
*   core: when merging, also merge properties (todo: map languages). Fix a problem in the admin new-rsc dialog when the category selection is set to ‘\*’
*   mod\_admin(\_merge): prevent form submit when pressing enter in the connect or merge search fields.
*   mod\_content\_groups/mod\_admin\_category/mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Delay pivoting whilst peforming updates of many resources.
*   Prepare for 0.13.6 release, preliminary release notes.

Marco Wessel (5):

*   Allow properly starting up in the foreground
*   Script should be executable of course.
*   Reinstate heart
*   Reverse logic
*   Be correct about quoting variables

loetie (1):

*   Typo inside is\_allowed check mod\_import\_csv.erl