Welcome Zotonic 0.13.2, released on August 11, 2015.

This is a maintenance release of Zotonic 0.13

The main change is that this version compiles correctly on Erlang 18.



Commits since 0.13.1
--------------------

There were 15 commits since release 0.13.1.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

Marc Worrell (15):

*   docs: fix ref in 0.13.1 release notes.
*   mod\_oauth: fix user\_id initialization on direct app creation
*   mod\_oauth: use the abs\_url of the request path for checking the signature. This fixes an issue where OAuth access to https sites is denied.
*   mod\_content\_groups: also add the content group as related data to the pivot.
*   mod\_base/mod\_admin: add optional redirect to the set website, using ‘is\_website\_redirect’. Allow overruling the controller’s ‘is\_canonical’ flag with ‘is\_page\_path\_multiple’. Add documentation for rsc properties ‘is\_dependent’, ‘content\_group\_id’, ‘is\_page\_path\_multiple’ and ‘is\_webite\_redirect’.
*   New z\_stdlib
*   core: allow max 5 smtp connections per relay, set max parallel smtp senders to 100. Fixes #993
*   mod\_survey: open survey results from mod\_admin\_frontend in new window.
*   mod\_base: hide any files and directories whose name starts with a ‘.’ Fixes #991
*   core: fix compilation on Erlang 18.0. Fixes #979
*   core: add erlang 18 as travis target.
*   Locked new deps.
*   Preliminary 0.13.2 release and release notes.
*   New z\_stdlib
*   mod\_content\_groups: on pivot add the complete path for the content-group as related ids.