Welcome Zotonic 0.13.4, released on September 16, 2015.

This is a maintenance release of Zotonic 0.13

Main changes are:

*   fixed an issue where mod\_survey answers could be shown without escaping
*   fixes for admin css and template issues
*   corrected handling of unsafe (escaped) characters in email addresses
*   easier access rule definitions by special handling of ‘meta’ category
*   fixed an issue where mod\_video would crash if there was an empty ffmpeg configuration
*   fixed an issue where the last row of an imported CSV file could be reversed



Commits since 0.13.3
--------------------

There were 34 commits since release 0.13.3.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

Arthur Clemens (17):

*   Pass property is\_dependent in datamodel; show status in edit page even if protected
*   Apply tab style to all tabs within widgets
*   Typo
*   mod\_admin: use relative date in event info
*   docs: exemplify unique ids
*   mod\_admin: allow other modules to get result from connect dialog by passing option ‘delegate’
*   mod\_admin: give first input field focus when switching tab
*   mod\_admin: improve layout of navigation bars
*   mod\_admin: improve layout of navigation bars: fix toolbar padding
*   mod\_admin: improve layout of navigation bars: improve some colors
*   docs: add example of a postback action called from javascript
*   mod\_admin: add styling for justified tabs
*   doc tweaks
*   mod\_admin: override style for code
*   Merge remote-tracking branch ‘origin/release-0.13.x’ into release-0.13.x
*   Revert “Merge remote-tracking branch ‘origin/release-0.13.x’ into release-0.13.x”
*   mod\_admin: override style for code: fix top bar

Marc Worrell (16):

*   Merge pull request #1022 from millenaarg/release-0.13.x
*   mod\_import\_csv: fix an issue where the last row is reversed iff there is no empty line at the end of the file.
*   mod\_backup: add option to make a database-only backup. Also make the backup list a live include.
*   mod\_backup: fix build by removing ‘&’ from @doc
*   core: fix a problem where email addresses couldn’t have a ‘ (single quot) in them. Fixes #1023
*   mod\_video: use the default ffmpeg command if the configured ffmpeg command is empty.
*   mod\_video: use the default ffprobe and ffmpeg\_preview command if the configured command is empty.
*   New dependencies
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: ACL rules only apply to category ‘meta’ if either ‘meta’ or the system content group is mentioned in the ACL rule. Fixes #1030
*   mod\_l10n: added Kosovo (code xk) to the country list.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: add ‘view-only’ option. Fixes #1034
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: show error if access to the ACL rules view is denied.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: remove ‘not’ that was left in for checking.
*   core: notify #hierarchy\_updated observers which ids have added and/or removed.
*   mod\_menu: show the category in menu-list items muted.
*   mod\_survey/mod\_base: url escape google chart arguments; escape survey label names.

millenaarg (1):

*   Added reference to scomps-script