Welcome to Zotonic 0.14.0, released on 7 March, 2016.

Main changes are:

*   From now on, we follow Semantic Versioning by increasing [the minor instead of the patch number](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1204) for our monthly releases.
*   Added [data model notification](http://zotonic.com/docs/latest/developer-guide/modules.html#data-model-notification).
*   Added [managed ACL rules](http://zotonic.com/docs/latest/ref/modules/mod_acl_user_groups.html#managing-acl-rules-in-code).
*   Added `zotonic wait` and `zotonic rpc` [commands](http://zotonic.com/docs/latest/ref/cli/index.html).
*   Added new user category [configuration parameter](http://zotonic.com/docs/latest/ref/modules/mod_admin_identity.html#configure-new-user-category).
*   Fixed redirect to login when user has no permissions by showing 403 page with login form.
*   Fixed several import and export bugs.
*   Fixed Dutch translations for mod\_acl\_user\_groups.
*   Fixed status page login button.
*   Improved documentation.
*   Improved m.req model.



Commits since 0.13.8
--------------------

There were 65 commits since release 0.13.8.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

David de Boer (17):

*   mod\_import\_csv: Fix CSV import for CR files
*   Add release preparation script
*   Restructure documentation into guides and reference
*   Add data model notification
*   Increase resource URI length
*   Move 0.13.7 release notes to new dir
*   doc: Document how to build docs
*   mod\_admin\_identity: Add config param for new user category
*   Support managed ACL rules
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Improve wording and add missing Dutch translations
*   Prepare hotfix release 0.13.8
*   doc: Improve access control chapter
*   Move release notes to proper location
*   Prepare release 0.14.0
*   doc: Fix link
*   doc: fix notification reference
*   Add 0.14.0 release notes

Lil’ Dash (1):

*   Fix the leap year error(issue : #1202)

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (15):

*   core: Added reference to active comet connection. Preparation for connection test page
*   mod\_base: Added connection test page
*   core: Return 0 bytes when there is nothing to transport. Related to #1097
*   core: Typo in refactored controller\_comet
*   mod\_base: removed debug statement from comet controller
*   admin: Make it possible to brand the admin console
*   mod\_base: Removed delegate macro, it was tripping edoc generation
*   core: Fixes setting and resetting ws transport timeouts. Related to #1116
*   mod\_base: Let postback and comet return text/x-ubf mimetype.
*   build: Make it possible to separate user beams
*   build: Add user\_ebin\_dir to zotonic.config.in
*   build: Fix for the case when there is no user work
*   doc: Repair underline warning.
*   mod\_mqtt: Restart middleman subscriber processes. Fixes #1201
*   mod\_ssl: Create and use a file with dh parameters. Fixes #1198

Marc Worrell (31):

*   mod\_export: encode YMD only date as UTC, add fallback for other dates to handle illegal dates.
*   mod\_export: suppress ST\_JUTTEMIS and year 9999 dates in the output.
*   Lock new depcache. Fixes a problem where the wrong depcache could be used for lookups. Fixes #1172
*   core: refactor transport of multipart posts and comet polls.
*   core: fix specs of refactored z\_parse\_multipart functions.
*   mod\_base: only initialize callback forms after javascript delegate calls, not after other delegates. Issue #1159
*   core: allow ‘none’ as crop argument.
*   core: allow flexible ‘visible\_for’ settings.
*   docs: add doc for m.category.text.tree\_flat
*   core: use the ‘image’ dispatch rule to generate image urls.
*   core: add more information and better docs for the m.req model.
*   core: (m\_rsc) allow template access to page\_url and other ‘public’ properties of non accessible resources.
*   core: show 403 page with option to login instead of redirecting to login controller. Fixes #1148
*   core: fix ‘provide\_empty’ in http error controller.
*   core: fix erlydtl debug for binary filenames.
*   mod\_twitter: drop tweet id 0
*   mod\_translation: add interface to change the i18n.language\_stemmer configuration
*   mod\_oembed/mod\_video\_embed: add the medium properties video\_embed\_service and video\_embed\_id. Fixes #941
*   mod\_base: added actions overlay\_open/overlay\_close
*   mod\_backup: fix acl check for revisions
*   core: fix redirect returns within dispatcher for alternate hosts.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: fix a problem with edge checks for hasusergroup edges. Fixes #1199
*   mod\_authentication: fix ru translation for ‘Sign in’ Fixes #1197
*   core: allow ‘\{lossless, false\}’ in mediaclass definitions.
*   core: fixes for initialization and startup of new sites.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: fix schema initialization. Fixes #1200
*   core: fix for check of db schema exists.
*   core: better check query for schema existance.
*   core: filter the watch\_dirs on dead links, this fixes a problem with inotify stopping on removed link targets
*   core: fix a problem where the comet loop can crash if the page process dies.
*   mod\_survey: do not crash on unknown survey question types when preparing charts.

Marco Wessel (1):

*   scripts: Add zotonic-rpc and zotonic-wait commands