Welcome to Zotonic 0.15.0, released on 4 April, 2016.

Main changes are:

*   Added `is_number` template filter.
*   Added `persistent_set` template action. resource.
*   Added mod\_media\_exif.
*   Improved mod\_export.
*   Upgraded TinyMCE to 4.3.7.
*   Fixed [#1216](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1216) by changing `lossless` media option to `false` (instead of `auto`).
*   Fixed [#1148](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1148) by adding 403 page for logged in users that have no access to the current
*   Fixed [#1205](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1205): DPI for resized images.
*   Fixed [#1224](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1224): limit access to mod\_rest and mod\_export to users that have `use` permission.
*   Fixed [#1221](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1221): order of Growl messages.



Commits since 0.14.0
--------------------

There were 60 commits since release 0.14.0.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

Arthur Clemens (3):

*   mod\_admin: remove extraneous closing div
*   mod\_admin: move footer to its own row
*   mod\_admin: add a bit of space to the footer

David de Boer (4):

*   mod\_admin: Fix link to search docs (#1220)
*   doc: Fix ACL rule fixture syntax
*   scripts: Fix comment
*   Prepare 0.15.0

Marc Worrell (53):

*   core: fix a problem where the comet loop can crash if the page process dies.
*   mod\_base: add ‘is\_number’ filter.
*   mod\_backup: move the list of known resource properties to m\_rsc.
*   mod\_export: refactor export, separate encoder functions. Added xlsx export encoder.
*   mod\_survey: remove controller\_survey\_results, mod\_export is now used.
*   docs: remove controller\_survey\_result docs.
*   docs: add documentation for filter is\_number
*   mod\_export: add vcalendar export (ics)
*   mod\_export: connect mod\_export to the 303 handling of controller\_id
*   mod\_export: remove #export\_resource\_data observe, this is already handled in export\_encoder:do\_body/2
*   mod\_base: new action ‘persistent\_set’
*   docs: fix inline quote error.
*   docs: add persistent\_set to the doc tree
*   core: also look into ~/.zotonic/&lt;major-version>/.. directory for configuration.
*   mod\_export: filter tags and unescape html with spreadsheet exports. Add ‘raw’ option to not filter/unescape.
*   mod\_export: fix double reverse of xlsx rows
*   mod\_survey: also show the prompts in the answers exports.
*   core: use Erlang ‘exif’ module and add mod\_media\_exif to extract resource properties (gps, orientation, crop, date)
*   Run travis on 0.x
*   docs: add simple documenttaion for mod\_media\_exif
*   core: add mod\_media\_exif to the core modules.
*   core: fix for focus point calculation.
*   tinymce: add version 4.3.7. Add option to add captions to the body media. Also: \* Add a template for the image options dialog \* Move some named wires to \_editor.tpl to prevent multiple initialization for every single editable body.
*   mod\_editor\_tinymce: remove version 4.0.26 and 4.1.6
*   mod\_editor\_tinymce: remove the deleted tinymce versions from the configure dialog
*   mod\_editor\_tinymce: include the correct css version
*   mod\_export: simplified download buttons for the admin sidebar
*   mod\_export: add explanation for event download
*   mod\_authentication: add 403 page with logon form (or redirect button for secure page)
*   Switch to nlfiedler/erlang-exif.git instead of our own branch
*   Switch to nlfiedler/erlang-exif.git instead of our own branch
*   mod\_base: remove comet streamhost from zotonic js
*   core: remove mentions of streamhost (which is unsupported)
*   New mochiweb
*   mod\_filestore: remove GreenQloud - they transferred their business to another company.
*   core: start using psql ‘IN (SELECT(unnest(::int\[\])))’ instead of concatenated id strings.
*   mod\_twitter: fix a problem where httpc sessions were not closed.
*   New twerl library
*   mod\_base: restart ws/comet if navigating back to the page in iOS/Safari
*   mod\_base: tune stream restart on pageshow of persisted pages.
*   mod\_base: better session check on pageshow. Still a problem if tinymce is enabled and the page is re-visited for the 2nd time (twice back to the page).
*   mod\_mailinglist: add some useful shortcuts to the edit sidebar panel
*   New tw\* erl dep
*   core: ensure that resized images have a density of 72DPI. Fixes #1205
*   Fix media preview test for dpi forcing
*   mod\_base: show newer growl messages on top. Fixes #1221
*   core: change media preview option ‘lossless’ default to ‘false’ (instead of ‘auto’). Fixes #1216
*   Fix a problem with filtering on content-group in searches.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: fix a problem where the ACL tree expand could not find some entries.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: fix problem adding new rules. Stabilize the order of rules by including the rule creation date and id into the sort order Split system content groups in pull-down, to clearify that ‘all’ doesn’t apply to the system content groups.
*   mod\_export: limit exports to users with mod\_export.use permission. Refactor export api, simple privacy filter for email address. Issue #1224
*   mod\_rest: add acl check for mod\_rest.use. Issue #1224
*   mod\_logging: fix a problem with filtering on content-id and other-id.