Welcome to Zotonic 0.16.0, released on 2 May, 2016.

Main changes are:

*   Fixed [#1099](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1099): added collaboration groups.
*   [#1227](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1227): Added [ip\_whitelist configuration option](http://zotonic.com/docs/0.x/ref/configuration/site-configuration.html) to block unwanted access when admin password is ‘admin’.
*   Serve status site with 503.
*   Fixed [#1229](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1229): users cannot update their person resource.
*   Fixed [#1236](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1236) by removing is\_authoritative access check.
*   Fixed [#1245](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1245) by improving the 403 page.
*   Fixed [#1147](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1147) by passing `qargs` to search.
*   Fixed [#1230](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1230): Firefox file upload error.
*   Fixed [#1248](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1248): Dutch month abbreviation.
*   Fixed [#1250](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1250): view button in case of no update permissions.



Commits since 0.15.0
--------------------

There were 39 commits since release 0.15.0.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

Arjan Scherpenisse (4):

*   zotonic\_status: Serve the root page with HTTP 503
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Fix permission issue
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Fix typo in edit check on the collab group itself
*   scripts: Fix prepare-release.sh

David de Boer (5):

*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Automatically publish managed ACL rules
*   doc: Add Sphinx extlinks extension
*   mod\_l10n: Fix #1248 Dutch month abbreviation
*   doc: Update for new lossless default (6e5692d0cab0eb5a125a05a3ab02933a0e6829e4)
*   Prepare release 0.16.0

Marc Worrell (29):

*   Add a whitelist of IP addresses that can use the default ‘admin’ password to login into sites.
*   Add doc for ip\_whitelist config. Fix ip6 netmask
*   mod\_search: add search argument ‘qargs’
*   mod\_admin: add ‘object\_id’ as optional argument to the connect dialog. Remove template from the ‘update’ notification, as it is ‘\_rsc\_item.tpl’ anyway.
*   modules: correction for some icons and small textual changes.
*   mod\_admin\_predicate/category: fix a problem with moving categories and predicates.
*   Add 169.254.0.0/16 and fe80::/10 to the default ip\_whitelist
*   core: add z\_module\_manager:activate\_await/2, z\_notifier:await/2 and /3.
*   core: rename z\_module\_manager:activate\_wait to activate\_await
*   mod\_base: fix a problem with Firefox when uploading files via the postback controller. Fixes #1230
*   mod\_base: fix a problem with firefox and sortable. Fixes #1239
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: added support for collaboration groups. Issue #1099
*   Fix a problem where a user can’t update their own ‘person’ resource. Issue #1229
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: fix a problem where ‘sudo’ was not handled properly during rsc updates. Issue #1229
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: remove default ‘view’ rights on collaboration group.
*   core: do not require additional permissions to change the is\_authoritative flag. Fixes #1236
*   docs: remove mention of streamhost, as it is removed from the code. Fixes #1228
*   mod\_survey: changes for editing surveys and readable display of survey answers.
*   mod\_export: fixes for export.
*   mod\_export: fix header value lookup for \{trans, \_\} tuples.
*   mod\_base: in filter temporary\_rsc, don’t crash on insert access error but return ‘undefined’
*   mod\_admin: on edit page, make ‘view’ button into an anchor if no edit rights. Fixes #1250
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: do not give view rights on unpublished rsc, unless user has edit permission.
*   mod\_authentication/mod\_base: better 403 page and translations. Fixes #1245
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: ‘edit’ should be ‘update’, use m\_rsc version of is\_published\_date
*   core: ensure in m\_rsc that ‘language’ is a list of known languages.
*   mod\_signup: use foldr for signup\_form\_fields, let higher prio modules win.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: tune access permissions for collaboration groups. All collab group members can view the collab group. If someone can update/link/delete a collab group, then that user can do the same on the collab group content. Rename the config collab\_group\_edit to collab\_group\_update.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: members of a collaboration group can view each other.

Osei Poku (1):

*   doc: Fix minor errors in documentation