Welcome to Zotonic 0.17.0, released on 6 June, 2016.

Main changes are:

*   Added [#1274](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1274): SNI support on Erlang 18.3 and higher.
*   Added [#1284](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1284): default ACL rules.
*   Added [#1240](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1240), [#1276](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1276) and [#1283](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1283): documentation for ACL user groups, task queue and Google Analytics.
*   Added [#1265](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1265) and [#1268](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1268): sanitise SVG uploads and link tags.
*   Fixed [#1285](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1285): be less verbose when inserting ACL rules.
*   Fixed [#1272](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1272): Vimeo embeds.
*   Fixed [#1271](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1271): protected media security.
*   Fixed [#1207](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1207) by giving `m_rsc.uri` property precedence over generated URI.
*   Fixed [#1132](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1132) by setting `Content-Security-Policy` header.



Commits since 0.16.0
--------------------

There were 54 commits since release 0.16.0.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

Arjan Scherpenisse (11):

*   scripts: Fix prepare-release.sh
*   doc: Fix version nr; add missing rst files; update installation requirements
*   doc: Update sidebar, update installation instructions
*   admin: Show collaboration groups in content dropdown on overview
*   mod\_admin: Show content groups + page size filters on media overview
*   zotonic\_status: Show site name next to URL
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Fix typo in edit check on the collab group itself
*   mod\_email\_dkim: Add DKIM signing of outgoing emails
*   mod\_base: Add ‘without’ filter
*   doc: Add filter\_without to filter toc
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Fix permission check for adding members/managers to group

Arthur Clemens (1):

*   core: use short notation to include the header

David de Boer (14):

*   deps: Lock erlang\_localtime
*   doc: Fix absolute/relative URL terminology
*   mod\_admin\_identity: Fix verification e-mail URL
*   doc: Update release branch name
*   Add 0.16.0 release notes
*   Clean up README and fix dead links
*   doc: Document Google Analytics
*   doc: Document media caption
*   base: Fix figcaption tag
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Insert default ACL rules (see #1131)
*   doc: Document the task queue
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Be less verbose when editing and publishing ACL rules
*   doc: Document mod\_acl\_user\_groups
*   doc: Fix typos

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (2):

*   build: Locked new mochiweb in order to support SSL on IE9 and 10 on OTP 18+
*   core: Move ssl listeners to the core and support SNI.

Marc Worrell (26):

*   mod\_signup: use foldr for signup\_form\_fields, let higher prio modules win.
*   deps: switch to original erlang\_localtime from dmitryme. Issue #1036
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: tune access permissions for collaboration groups. All collab group members can view the collab group. If someone can update/link/delete a collab group, then that user can do the same on the collab group content. Rename the config collab\_group\_edit to collab\_group\_update.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: members of a collaboration group can view each other.
*   core: add support for ‘–’ operator, extend support for ‘++’ operator.
*   core: add sanitization on the contents of uploaded SVG files. Issue #1265
*   Lock new dispatch\_compiler. Fixes #1261
*   core: in m\_rsc, always let the uri property take presendence above the local ‘id’ rule for non-informatonal uri generation. Fixes #1207
*   core: fix a problem where a file could be downloaded iff the file is not stored via a filestore. Fixes #1271
*   mod\_video\_embed: fix a problem where Vimeo embeds did not show a preview images. Fixes #1272
*   mod\_admin: in depiction upload dialog, enable the ‘upload’ tab by default.
*   core: in html sanitize, add ‘noopener noreferrer’ to &lt;a/> tags with a ‘target’ attribute.
*   mod\_video\_embed: better handling of 404 when fetchin Vimeo thumbnail.
*   core: added extra SVG sanitization.
*   Lock new z\_stdlib for SVG sanitization. Issue #1265
*   mod\_survey: also mail all uploaded files to the ‘survey\_email’ email address.
*   mod\_admin: set X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN header for admin pages. Issue #1132
*   mod\_admin: fix is\_authorized/2 in controller\_admin\_edit
*   mod\_base: set CSP sandbox header if a user uploaded file is served with controller\_file. Issue #1132
*   mod\_acl\_user\_group: add option to move resources to collaboration groups the user is not member of.
*   mod\_admin: allow to select multiple connection in the connection-find dialog. Use the option ‘autoclose’ to change the text of the close button to ‘cancel’.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: better overview of rules. Use dialog for editing rules.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: in acl rule edit, clear collaboration group search when group is selected.
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: fix filtering on content groups when searching. This fixes a problem when a user is allowed to see all or specific collaboration groups via the ACL rules.
*   mod\_survey: fix layout of admin options.
*   mod\_survey: in the emails, also show any ‘injected’ fields. This allows the template to dynamically inject some answers without corresponding questions.\*