Welcome to Zotonic 0.20.0, released on 5 September, 2016.

Main changes are:

*   Added an MQTT notification when identity is deleted ([#1376](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1376)).
*   Fixed menu separators in the admin menu ([#1388](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1388)).
*   Fixed some tests not being run ([#1392](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1392)).
*   Fixed memory leak in Comet en WebSocket connection handling.
*   Renamed ‘App Keys and Authentication Services’ admin menu item to ‘External services’ (issue:1389).
*   In the admin, moved CSV import to the Content admin menu and require only use mod\_import\_csv permissions ([#1350](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1350)).
*   Removed Perl dependency ([#1373](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1373)).
*   In many places, the resource’s unique name and id can now be used interchangeably ([#1356](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1356)).
*   Several documentation improvements, including an example configuration for SSL termination using Nginx ([#1359](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1359)).



Commits since 0.19.0
--------------------

There were 36 commits since release 0.19.0.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

Arjan Scherpenisse (3):

*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: Fix typo in ACL import
*   core: Allow retrieving site config values from the OS environment
*   mod\_base: Log the stacktrace when an API method throws an error

Arthur Clemens (6):

*   docs: Describe uploading files with API services
*   dialog: reposition one tick after initialization
*   dialog: make repositioning function accessible outside
*   dialog: fix dialogs that do not have option ‘center’
*   dialog: add function to scroll to position
*   Add style to LESS instead of CSS

David de Boer (20):

*   doc: Fix build
*   docker: Create lite Zotonic container (#1310)
*   Add 0.19.0 release notes (#1358)
*   doc: Fix typo
*   doc: Document page template names (#1364)
*   admin: Fix inline links (#1366)
*   Add .editorconfig
*   Remote trailing whitespaces from .erl and .tpl files
*   core: Add MQTT notification for delete\_by\_type\_and\_key (#1376)
*   mod\_base: Fix Content-Security-Policy for inline PDFs (#1379)
*   doc: Fix indent
*   doc: Improve search docs (#1369)
*   doc: Add a note that only unprotected Tweets will be imported (#1387)
*   mod\_import\_csv: Fix untranslated cancel button
*   core: For every resource id argument, allow resource name as well (#1356)
*   mod\_authentication: Rename menu to ‘External Services’ (#1389)
*   mod\_import\_csv: Move CSV import to Content menu (#1391)
*   mod\_admin: Fix menu separators not shown (#1388)
*   tests: Include db\_tests in testrun (#1393)
*   core: Remove rid from maybe\_allowed (#1400)

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (1):

*   core: Fix memory leak in comet and ws connection handling.

Marc Worrell (5):

*   mod\_menu: fix a problem where the conversion of old config-menu failed due to missing main\_menu resource.
*   core: allow m\_rsc p\_no\_acl fetch of exists and id
*   mod\_survey: fix fetch of label names for truefalse questions.
*   smtp: ensure that the logged error reason is a binary. This fixes a situation where the value \{error, \{error, timeout\}\} was returned from gen\_smtp\_client:send\_blocking/2.
*   smtp: ensure that the logged error reason is a binary. This fixes a situation where the value \{error, \{error, timeout\}\} was returned from gen\_smtp\_client:send\_blocking/2.

Marco Wessel (1):

*   Remove perl dependency (#1373)