Welcome to Zotonic 0.26.0, released on 6 March, 2017.

Main changes are:

*   Added support for special characters in z-media caption ([#1618](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1618)).
*   Added `facets` property to `#search_result{}` record ([#1606](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1606)).
*   Fixed zmedia dialog does not open in Firefox ([#1620](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1620)).
*   Fixed hidden dropdown menu in admin ([#1603](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1603)).
*   Fixed a problem with UBF-encoded date values.
*   Fixed forbidden response from S3 filestore triggering retries.
*   Moved filezcache data and journal directories outside the dependency directory ([#1601](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1601)).



Commits since 0.25.0
--------------------

There were 19 commits since release 0.25.0.

Big thanks to all people contributing to Zotonic!



### Git shortlog

David de Boer (5):

*   core: Make pivot index name unique (#1598)
*   Add 0.25.0 release notes (#1600)
*   core: Add facets property to search\_result (#1606)
*   core: Move filezcache data dir outside dep dir (#1621)
*   core: Upgrade filezcache

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (1):

*   core: Explicitly set the timezone of the db connection to UTC

Marc Worrell (13):

*   mod\_base: in ubf.js fix a problem with encoding date values
*   mod\_admin: fix a problem where in tree-lists the dropdown menu was hidden. Fixes #1603
*   Upgrade z\_stdlib.
*   New z\_stdlib
*   mod\_base: add ‘is\_danger’ flag to the confirm dialog. This will show the ‘ok’ button with the ‘btn-danger’ style.
*   Add support for special characters in the z-media caption. (#1618)
*   New z\_stdlib
*   core: allow m\_edge:get\_id/4 calls with an non-existing predicate.
*   mod\_filestore: handle S3 forbidden as non retryable error.
*   core: fix utf8 problem for R16
*   mod\_editor\_tinymce: fix check for crop checkbox.
*   core: the medium size is actually called ‘middle’ (for 0.x)
*   mod\_editor\_tinymce: fix zmedia for Firefox