Welcome to Zotonic 0.41.0, released on 1 October, 2018.

Main changes are:

*   Upgraded jquery from 1.11.1 to 3.3.1 ([#1922](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1922)).
*   Added livereload to mod\_development (enable via `/admin/development`).
*   Fix a problem with default date handlng in resource updates ([#1885](https://github.com/zotonic/zotonic/issues/1885)).
*   mod\_mailinglist now uses mod\_email\_status for bounce checks.

jQuery upgrade note:

Please note that if you manually include jquery-migrate in your templates, you will have to change your templates manually because jquery-migrate is also upgraded from jquery-migrate-1.2.1 to jquery-migrate-1.4.1.



Commits since 0.40.0
--------------------

David de Boer (4):

*   core: Don’t default start date to now (#1885)
*   core: Don’t crash when files have been deleted (#1928)
*   docker: Fix rebar failure during Docker build (#1930)
*   core: Fix pivot failure during manage\_data (#1932)

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (5):

*   core: Fix, minify all concatenated js and css files, not just the first
*   core: Compress svg files
*   mod\_mqtt: Support retained messages
*   Added 0.41.0 release notes with an extra note about jquery migrate
*   core: Call z\_datamodel:manage inside a transaction to prevent inconsistencies. See #1927

Marc Worrell (17):

*   mod\_mailinglist: Fix typo in predicate name
*   mod\_admin\_merge: add option to add missing translations to the winner. (#1915)
*   mod\_authentication: escape q arg
*   Fix leap year problem
*   Fix a problem with the slug when merging resources.
*   mod\_translation: Fix a problem with copying languages
*   core: fix tz update for tables/columns that are reserved SQL keywords.
*   Use folsom and bear from github.com/folsom-project. Fixes #1920
*   mod\_development: add livereload of css and js. Issue #1793 (#1924)
*   base: Upgraded old jquery to 3.3.1 (#1926)
*   Update mailinglist to work with email\_status (#1929)
*   mod\_development: work around for server caching of livereload css
*   core: Add option to use ‘user\_id’ as controller\_page id configuration.
*   base: allow ‘user\_id’ as configured id for controller\_redirect.
*   controller\_file: fix a problem where IE11 could not download files.
*   Prepare 0.41.0
*   Fix issue for jquery.find(‘#’), upgrade bs js. Issue #1934 (#1935)

loetie (1):

*   Support failure\_message in email\_unique validator (#1931)