Welcome to Zotonic 0.48.0, released on 9 April, 2019.

Main changes are:

*   `mod_geoip` to lookup Geo information for an IP address
*   New connect dialog in the admin
*   Option to let users agree to changed Terms & Conditions after logon
*   Changes to `mod_clamav` virus scanning to allow uploads of files larger than the maximum file size for clamd.



Commits since 0.47.0
--------------------

David de Boer (1):

*   Split HTML head templates to make overrides possible (#1746) (#2017)

Dorien (1):

*   admin: Add block around modal footer (#2018)

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (3):

*   core: Template controller accidentally used the wrong context variable
*   mod\_bootstrap: Upgrade to 3.4.1 and add a upgrade description. Fixes #2020 (#2021)
*   Locked new diffy and z\_stdlib. Fixes diffing bug and adds options for encoding ubf

Marc Worrell (20):

*   admin: Combine new-page, upload, and connect dialog (#2019)
*   mod\_clamav: fix default max size.
*   Upgrade z\_stdlib
*   Lock new z\_stdlib
*   Fix a problem where the new find/new connect dialog failed with other ACL modules and with linking in texts.
*   mod\_geoip: new module to map IP addresses to country names. (#2025)
*   mod\_geoip: add ip2info filter to extract more information about an IP address
*   Rename filter ip2info to ip2geo
*   mod\_admin\_identity: let admins not switch to the ‘admin’ account.
*   mod\_admin: fix error message display on errornous media upload.
*   mod\_content\_groups: give feedback why a content group could not be deleted. (#2023)
*   Tos agree on create (#2022)
*   mod\_search: fix a problem with specifying ‘qargs’ in a stored query. Fixes #2026
*   Suppress backup files for dispatch rules.
*   mod\_clamav: fix spec
*   mod\_acl\_user\_groups: reconnect all websocket connections of a user if their permissions change. Fixes #2028 (#2029)
*   Redesign of connect/new tab. (#2034)
*   Fix a problem with the preflight\_check of a query with ‘qargs’ term.
*   clamav: set medium flags ‘is\_av\_scanned’ and ‘is\_av\_sizelimit’ (#2031)
*   New z\_stdlib
*   Fix a problem with the menu editor and the new connect/find dialog. Fixes #2038