Welcome to Zotonic 0.55.0, released on March 12, 2020.

Main changes are:

*   All admin pages are now ssl only (if ssl enabled)
*   Warning on admin/status page if the ssl app is not configured
*   Option to start editing languages but not use them yet for the site itself
*   Color coding of the admin depending on the current DTAP environment
*   Show warning in the admin when editing system resources like categories and predicates
*   Reorganization of the new-resource dialog
*   Backoff for erronous task-queue functions
*   Added function z:load\_config() to reload the zotonic.config file, this does not restart listeners but does change settings like the smtp proxy and DTAP environment.



Commits since 0.54.0
--------------------

Maas-Maarten Zeeman (2):

*   admin: Make all admin page accessible via ssl only. (#2310)
*   1337 ssl application configuration (#2304)
*   core: Add an explicit table lock to prevent race conditions (#2333)

Marc Worrell (30):

*   Remove X-DTAP-Environment header. Issue #2302
*   Remove X-DTAP-Environment header. Issue #2302 (#2303)
*   docs: Remove mention of x-dtap-environment header.
*   Merge branch ‘2032-remove-dtap-header’ into 0.x
*   Fix bs3 class of progress-bar.
*   mod\_translation: add option to make languages available in de admin/edit but not yet enabled. (#2307)
*   mod\_admin: Show warning on edit page if editing system content. (#2311)
*   mod\_admin: change content warning link to datamodel
*   core: add z:load\_config() to reload the zotonic.config file. (#2313)
*   mod\_admin: reflect the environment in the admin colors. Issue #2319 (#2320)
*   Hide the ‘file upload’ on initial show with preselected non-media category. Issue #2305 (#2322)
*   mod\_admin: use abs uri for copy of download link
*   core: Add backoff for task queue errors.
*   Add ‘name.&lt;name>’ as selector for catincludes (#2316)
*   email\_status: Mark ‘access denied’ as unrecoverable.
*   mod\_admin: correct menu item text color.
*   mod\_admin: small correction in environment.less
*   mod\_email\_status: add email status panel to email log.
*   Add class ‘data-table’ which wraps td on any character
*   Fix icons on email status view.
*   mod\_email\_status: new nl translations
*   mod\_logging: new translations
*   email: do not send any email to blocked addresses.
*   mod\_admin: new page dialog, swap columns and small changes (#2330)