Displaying a site map
=====================

For the benefit of search engines and fans of tables of contents you
can easily provide a site map.

.. note:: This article discusses HTML site maps. For the XML kind which Google uses, see :ref:`mod_seo_sitemap`.

Why
---

Some users prefer to navigate a site based on its underlying
structure.  Search engines also use this information to determine how
pages relate to each other within your site.  For these cases it is
useful to have a site map.

Assumptions
-----------

Readers are expected to know where templates go in a site and how they
basically work.  To benefit the most you will also need experience in
CSS to style the end-result effectively.

How
---

This is straight-forward except for the CSS (which isn't provided
here), but that isn't entirely avoidable since it depends completely
on how you want to display things.  On the other hand this does give
you a workable nested unordered list with links to the pages which
certainly serves the basic functionality out of the box.

Create site_map.tpl containing::

  {% extends "page.tpl" %} 
  {% block below_body %} 
      {% menu %} 
  {% endblock %}

Create a dispatch rule to take /site-map to your Site Map page::

  {site_map, ["site-map"], resource_page, [{template, "site_map.tpl"}, {id, page_site_map}]}
  
Create a Page with the Admin interface and set its Unique Name to
``page_site_map``. Whatever you put in the body will show above the
site map.

I haven't discussed CSS, but the HTML generated by the :ref:`scomp-menu` tag is pretty CSS friendly.

.. seealso:: :ref:`scomp-menu`
